---
layout: post
permalink: /204
title: 18.204 Undergraduate Seminar in Discrete Mathematics
---
**Fall 2018, Massachusetts Institute of Technology**  
**Class meetings:** Mondays and Wednesdays 11am–12:30pm in 2-147  
**Instructor:** [Zilin Jiang](/) (see website for contact info)

## Course description

The aim of this course is to have fun reading beautiful mathematics, and to explain it to
each other through presentations and writings.
Comparing to other subjects in mathematics, combinatorics requires fewer prerequisites, and yet
connects deeply with other branches of maths. It is a subject that is fun to study on its own, and also
a gateway to other fascinating maths.

In this course, each student gets three oppotunities to present topics of their choice to
an inquisitive group of peers, and also gets to experience writing a paper.

The first talk takes the form of a 30-minute chalk talk, preceded by a mandatory 1-hour meeting with me and
the mathematical communicaiton specialist [Malcah Effron](https://cmsw.mit.edu/profile/malcah-effron/).

The second talk could either build further upon the first talk or start something anew.
This talk takes the form of a 30-minute chalk talk as well, and ideally paves the way for the term paper.
Practice talk with me and/or Malcah is optional, but encouraged.

The last talk is based on the term paper, and must be a 20-minute slides talk, preceded by a mandatory 1-hour meeting with me and Malcah.

To check the understanding of the presentations thus far, three 50-minute student-created midterms
will be given in class followed by discussions.

The term paper will be completed in stages:
1. Propose a topic by October 15;
1. Write a draft for feedback from me by November 14;
1. Revise and submit a draft for feedback from peers by November 28;
1. Critique the drafts of two classmates due in class on December 3;
1. Submit the final draft of the paper by December 12.

The paper need not contain original results, but the writing must be your own and all sources must be properly
acknowledged (ask if you have questions). The paper must be written in the style of a research or expository journal
article, and must be about 10 pages long typed in LaTeX.

## Grading

3 presentations worth 15% each, 3 in-class midterms worth 10% each, and the term paper for 25%.  
*Attendance policy.* Without a valid excuse such as illness, failure to show up at one's own talk or more than three failures to attend the classes results an immediate failure.


## Schedule

Schedule subject to change.

| M     |   | W |   |
|:-------:|---|:---:|---|
|       |   | 9/5 | Introduction |
| 9/10  | Kimberly Villalobos Carballo;<br>Zilu Pan. | 9/12 | Presentation workshop |
| 9/17  | Kritkorn Karntikoon;<br>Jennifer Zou. | 9/19 | Rebekah Terry;<br>Ini Oguntola. |
| 9/24  | Vivek Miglani;<br>Alexander Cauneac. | 9/26 | Sophia Xia. |
| 10/1  |   | 10/3 |  |
| 10/8  | _No class (Columbus day)_ | 10/10 | **In-class midterm #1** |
| 10/15 |   | 10/17 |  |
| 10/22 |   | 10/24 |  |
| 10/29 |   | 10/31 |  |
| 11/5  |   | 11/7  | **In-class midterm #2** |
| 11/12 | _No class (Veterans day)_ | 11/14 |  |
| 11/19 |   | 11/21 |  |
| 11/26 |   | 11/28 |  |
| 12/3  | Peer critique | 12/5  | **In-class midterm #3** |
| 12/10 |   | 12/12 |  |
